Add/universal login (#9038)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/about-cloud/login.md

---
title: "Log in to dbt platform"
id: "login"
description: "Use login.dbt.com to discover and access your dbt platform accounts."
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

> The [https://login.dbt.com](https://login.dbt.com) URL is the universal entry point for <Constant name="dbt_platform"/>. It sits outside any specific account and maps your identity (email) to the accounts you can access across all instances and regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[https://login.dbt.com](https://login.dbt.com) is the universal entry point for <Constant name="dbt_platform"/>. It sits outside any specific account and maps your email to the accounts you can access across instances and regions.
```

> You can also sign in directly using your account [**Access URL**](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) if you already know it (like `abc123.us1.dbt.com`). Refer to [Access, Regions, & IP Addresses](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) for the full list of access URLs by region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also sign in directly with your account **Access URL** if you already know it, for example, `abc123.us1.dbt.com`. Refer to [Access, regions, and IP addresses](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) for the full list of access URLs by region.
```

:::note

> `login.dbt.com` is currently available for multi-tenant accounts with an account-specific domain (for example, `abc123.us1.dbt.com`). Support for single-tenant accounts is coming soon. In the meantime, single-tenant users can sign in directly using their account **Access URL** (like `abc123.us1.dbt.com`).

Author: ```suggestion
`login.dbt.com` is currently available for multi-tenant accounts with an account-specific domain (for example, `abc123.us1.dbt.com`). Support for single-tenant accounts is coming soon. In the meantime, single-tenant users can sign in directly using their account **Access URL** (like `MY_COMPANY.us1.dbt.com`).
```

> OAuth clients such as [<Constant name="platform_cli"/>](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation), the [dbt VS Code extension](/docs/about-dbt-extension?version=2.0), and [dbt MCP](/docs/dbt-ai/about-mcp) have not yet been updated to use `login.dbt.com` and continue to authenticate through their account [**Access URL**](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses).

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna

This <Constant name="platform_cli"/>  renders ok in the preview but in vscode, I noticed there are only 12 uses of this and 150 uses of <Constant name="platform_cli" /> (with the space) This is a non-block suggestion to replace

Author: hey @nataliefiann i dont understand what 'this' is referring to in terms of uses? what are you suggesting to replace?

Author: discussed here and would prefer to keep as is since it's not affecting preview and helps the writer https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C02NCQ9483C/p1777029485332529?thread_ts=1777023044.886449&cid=C02NCQ9483C

:::

## How login works

1. Go to [https://login.dbt.com](https://login.dbt.com) and enter your email.

> 2. Enter you email and you will receive a verification code to log in if you have access to a dbt account. If you don't have a dbt account, you can create one on the same login page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How login works

1. Go to [https://login.dbt.com](https://login.dbt.com).
2. Enter your email and you will receive a verification code to log in if you have access to a dbt account. If you don't have a dbt account, you can create one on the same login page.
```

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna

Step 2 repeats "Enter your email so maybe amend it to "If your email is associated with a dbt account, you receive a verification code to continue...."

> 3. Check your email for the verification code and enter it in the login.dbt.com page to confirm you identity. The code expires in 5 minutes or after 3 attempts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check your email for the verification code, then enter it on `login.dbt.com` to confirm your identity. The code expires after 5 minutes or 3 attempts.
```

   - If you didn't receive a code, check your spam folder or request a new one. You may not receive a verification code if your email is not associated with a dbt account.
4. Once you verify, <Constant name="dbt_platform"/> looks up which accounts are associated with your email address:
    - If you have access to multiple accounts, you see a list of accounts including their region and tenancy. Select the one you want to open.
    - If you have access to only one account, you're redirected to that account directly.
5. Authenticate using the method configured for that account (password, SSO, or MFA).

:::note
If no accounts are found for your email, contact [dbt Support](mailto:support@getdbt.com) or your account admin. You can also sign in directly at your account [**Access URL**](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses).
:::

<video width="100%" height="100%" playsinline muted controls>
  <source src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/login.mp4" type="video/mp4" />

> </video>

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna

Although the vid is for illustrative purposes, it shows some account specific details / pii - maybe carousel  images might be better as you can blur out the sensitive info?

Author: addressed here https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/9038/commits/ec12a200ef0aaafdb3dc846f9dfe1da0a8d5b763

## SSO behavior

After you select an account, <Constant name="dbt_platform"/> applies that account's authentication requirements. If SSO is enforced for the account, you'll be redirected to your identity provider (IdP) to complete authentication. Refer to [SSO overview](/docs/cloud/manage-access/sso-overview) for more information about SSO configuration.

<!--
OAuth and external clients
External clients that integrate with <Constant name="dbt_platform"/> use OAuth to authenticate &mdash; like [<Constant name="platform_cli"/>](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) and the [dbt VS Code extension](/docs/about-dbt-extension?version=2.0), and [dbt MCP](/docs/dbt-ai/about-mcp) &mdash; use `login.dbt.com` as the consistent redirect entry point. This means you go through the same account discovery and authentication flow regardless of which client initiates the login.
-->

## Admin settings

> Account administrators can control whether users can discover the account through `login.dbt.com`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Account administrators can control whether users can discover an account through `login.dbt.com`. 
```

> - When account admins turn on the **Enable global account discovery** option in [Account settings](/docs/cloud/account-settings#enable-global-account-discovery) in <Constant name="dbt_platform" />, users will be able to find the account by entering their email at `login.dbt.com`. 

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna

I think it might be good to add navigation / directional steps for this section so that users know where to find it

<Lightbox src src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/login-account-list.png" width="85%" title="Select account to login to dbt platform"/>
</DocCarousel>

## SSO behavior

After you select an account, <Constant name="dbt_platform"/> applies that account's authentication requirements. If SSO is enforced for the account, you'll be redirected to your identity provider (IdP) to complete authentication. Refer to [SSO overview](/docs/cloud/manage-access/sso-overview) for more information about SSO configuration.

<!--
OAuth and external clients
External clients that integrate with <Constant name="dbt_platform"/> use OAuth to authenticate &mdash; like [<Constant name="platform_cli"/>](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) and the [dbt VS Code extension](/docs/about-dbt-extension?version=2.0), and [dbt MCP](/docs/dbt-ai/about-mcp) &mdash; use `login.dbt.com` as the consistent redirect entry point. This means you go through the same account discovery and authentication flow regardless of which client initiates the login.
-->

## Admin settings

Account administrators can control whether users can discover an account through `login.dbt.com`. 

> - When account admins turn on the **Enable global account discovery** option in [Account settings](/docs/cloud/account-settings#enable-global-account-discovery) in <Constant name="dbt_platform" />, users will be able to find the account by entering their email at `login.dbt.com`. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. In <Constant name="dbt_platform" />, account admins can go to [**Account settings**](/docs/cloud/account-settings#enable-global-account-discovery) and scroll to **Settings**. 
2. Navigate to the bottom and check the **Enable global account discovery** option to allow users will be able to find the account by entering their email at `login.dbt.com`.   
```
